Revamp docs left nav (#33)
xmtp/docs-xmtp-org: docs/pages/dms/client.mdx

# Create and configure an XMTP client

The XMTP message API revolves around a network client that allows retrieving and sending messages to other network participants. 

> ## Create a client

Author: Updated this section to combine https://docs.xmtp.org/dms/client#create-a-client with https://docs.xmtp.org/groups/build-group-chat#create-a-client-that-supports-group-chat to provide a common "Create a client" section that works for both 1:1 and group chat.

Please review the code samples in particular - I asked Cursor for help with updating the samples.

To create an XMTP client, it must be connected to a wallet on startup. You must pass in a connected wallet that implements the Signer interface. This wallet is required for authentication and encryption purposes.

For more information about wallet signature requests, see [Account signatures](/protocol/signatures).

> Clients created by XMTP v3 SDKs also support XMTP v2 messages. At a high-level, XMTP v3 is used to support group chat and XMTP v2 is used to support 1:1 chat.

Reviewer: Can also support xmtp v2 messages if the wallet is an EOA.

In the near future, XMTP v3 will support both group and 1:1 chat with Messaging Layer Security (MLS). Have questions or feedback, post to the [XMTP Community Forums](https://community.xmtp.org/c/development/58).

> Group chat is currently supported for mobile apps in Kotlin, Swift, React Native, and Node.js.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Group chat is currently supported in Kotlin, Swift, React Native, and Node.js.
```

In the near future, XMTP v3 will also support group chat for the web.

For more information about the work being done to support group chat for the web, see this [SQLite, WebAssembly, and Diesel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qnCeXsqqKcY&t=240s) talk in the XMTP Developer Community Call.

If your mobile app provides group chat, you must explicitly configure your client to enable this functionality by setting the `enableV3` client option to `true`.

:::tip[Best practice: Set enableV3 to true]

> Regardless of whether your app provides group chat, set the `enableV3` client option to `true` to benefit from other aspects of the upgraded XMTP v3 protocol.

Reviewer: Note you will not loose v2 functionality by doing this.

:::

For more information about client options, including how to set your client's network environment, see [client configuration options](#configure-the-client).

:::code-group

```ts [JavaScript]
import { Client } from "@xmtp/xmtp-js";

// Create the client with a `Signer` from your application
const xmtp = await Client.create(signer, {
  env: "production",

>   enableV3: true, // Enable group chat support

Reviewer: Does not support v3 at the moment so probably shouldnt add here.

Author: @nplasterer Ah, thank you for this - I took it too far! I thought the guidance to have everyone enableV3 meant that at least the flag was available in all SDKs and everyone should set this value. But what we mean is that all apps built with Kotlin, Swift, RN, and Node should set enableV3 to true. GOT IT - thank you!

Author: And the code comment is incorrect 😭. So sorry... I promise I know that group chat is not available for web yet.

});
```

```ts [React]
import { XMTPProvider } from "@xmtp/react-sdk";
import { useClient } from "@xmtp/react-sdk";

// Wrap your app with XMTPProvider
createRoot(document.getElementById("root") as HTMLElement).render(
  <StrictMode>
    <XMTPProvider>
      <App />
    </XMTPProvider>
  </StrictMode>
);

// Inside your component
export const CreateClient: React.FC<{ signer: Signer }> = ({ signer }) => {
  const { client, error, isLoading, initialize } = useClient();

  const handleConnect = useCallback(async () => {
    const options = {
      persistConversations: false,
      env: "production",

>       enableV3: true, // Enable group chat support

Reviewer: Not supported in web so probably should be removed.

    };
    await initialize({ keys, options, signer });
  }, [initialize]);

  // ... rest of the component code
};
```

```kotlin [Kotlin]
val client = Client().create(
    account = wallet, // wallet that implements SigningKey
    options = ClientOptions(
        api = ClientOptions.Api(XMTPEnvironment.PRODUCTION, isSecure = true),
        enableV3 = true, // Enable group chat support
        appContext = context, // Required if enableV3 is true
        dbDirectory = "mydbdir", // Optional: specify database directory

>         dbEncryptionKey = ByteArray(32) // Optional: 32-byte array for database encryption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        dbEncryptionKey = ByteArray(32) // Required 32-byte array for database encryption if enableV3 is true
```

    )
)
```

```swift [Swift]
import XMTP

let client = try await Client.create(
    account: account, // account that implements SigningKey
    options: .init(
        api: .init(env: .production, isSecure: true),
        enableV3: true, // Enable group chat support
        dbDirectory: "mydir", // Optional: specify database directory

>         dbEncryptionKey: key // Optional: key for database encryption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        dbEncryptionKey: key // // Required 32-byte array for database encryption if enableV3 is true
```

    )
)
```

```tsx [React Native]
import { Client } from "@xmtp/xmtp-react-native";

const xmtp = await Client.create(signer, {
  env: "production",
  enableV3: true, // Enable group chat support
  dbDirectory: "mydbdir", // Optional: specify database directory

>   dbEncryptionKey: new Uint8Array(32), // Optional: 32-byte array for database encryption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  dbEncryptionKey: new Uint8Array(32), // Required 32-byte array for database encryption if enableV3 is true
```

      <th>Parameter</th>
      <th>Default</th>
      <th>Description</th>

>     </tr>

Reviewer: cc @rygine

>     </tr>

Reviewer 2: yes, i think we should

>     </tr>

Author: Opened an issue for us to deliver this: https://github.com/xmtp/docs-xmtp-org/issues/37

I'll open a starter PR and share with you, @rygine  - thank you!

      <td>`undefined`</td>
      <td>
        preEnableIdentityCallback is a function that will be called immediately
        before an [Enable Identity wallet
        signature](/protocol/signatures#sign-to-enable-an-xmtp-identity) is
        requested from the user.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</div>

<div data-title="Kotlin">
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Parameter</th>
    <th>Default</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>env</td>
    <td>`DEV`</td>
    <td>Connect to the specified XMTP network environment. Valid values include `DEV`, `.PRODUCTION`, or `LOCAL`. For important details about working with these environments, see [XMTP production and dev network environments](#xmtp-network-environments).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>enableV3</td>
    <td>`false`</td>
    <td>To support group chat (a feature of XMTP v3), set to `true`. As a best practice, regardless of whether your app provides group chat, set `enableV3` to `true` to benefit from other aspects of the upgraded XMTP v3 protocol.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>appContext</td>
    <td>null</td>
    <td>Required if `enableV3` is set to `true`.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>dbEncryptionKey</td>
    <td>null</td>

>     <td>Optional. If not provided, a key is created and stored for you.</td>

Reviewer: This is now Required. We don't create or store keys anymore.

Reviewer: We could link to the recommended key storage in kotlin https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/keystore

<div data-title="Swift">
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Parameter</th>
    <th>Default</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>env</td>
    <td>`dev`</td>
    <td>Connect to the specified XMTP network environment. Valid values include `.dev`, `.production`, or `.local`. For important details about working with these environments, see [XMTP production and dev network environments](#xmtp-network-environments).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>enableV3</td>
    <td>`false`</td>
    <td>To support group chat (a feature of XMTP v3), set to `true`. As a best practice, regardless of whether your app provides group chat, set `enableV3` to `true` to benefit from other aspects of the upgraded XMTP v3 protocol.</td>
  </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>dbEncryptionKey</td>
    <td>null</td>

>     <td>Optional. If not provided, the database remains unencrypted.</td>

Reviewer: Required here as well. https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/protecting-keys-with-the-secure-enclave

      <th>Parameter</th>
      <th>Default</th>
      <th>Description</th>

>     </tr>

Author: Should the following options be added for RN?

        dbDirectory = "mydbdir", // Optional: specify database directory
        dbEncryptionKey = ByteArray(32) // Optional: 32-byte array for database

Reviewer: dbEncryptionKey is not optional if you use V3

Reviewer: But should be added to RN for sure.
